.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	host_processors.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/05/10  19:30:56  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:03:04  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.1.1.1  93/04/21  16:01:18  lli
.\" 	updated
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:05:17  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:10:34  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:10:41  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:35:19  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH host_processors 2 2/2/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
host_processors  \-  gets processor ports for a host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t host_processors(host_priv, processor_list, processor_count)
    mach_port_t		host_priv;
    processor_array_t	*processor_list;	/* out, ptr to array */
    mach_msg_type_number_t*	*processor_count;	/* out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
host_priv
Privileged host port for the desired host.
.TP 15
.B
processor_list
The set of processors existing on
.B host_priv
, no particular ordering is guaranteed. 
.TP 15
.B
processor_count
The number of threads in the 
.B processor_list.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B host_processors
gets send rights to  the processor port for each processor
existing on 
.B host_priv.
This is the privileged port that allows its
holder to control a processor. 
.B processor_list
is an array that is
created as a result of this call. The caller may wish to 
.B vm_deallocate
this array when the data is no longer needed.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B host_priv
is not a privileged host port.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ADDRESS
.B processor_count
points to inaccessible memory.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_start, processor_exit, processor_info, processor_control

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.

