.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	host_processor_sets.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:14:05  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:51:51  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:05:06  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:10:30  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:10:37  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:35:07  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH host_processor_sets 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
host_processor_sets  \-  gets processor_set ports name ports for a host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
host_processor_sets(host, processor_set_list, processor_set_count)
    mach_port_t		   host;
    processor_set_array_t  *processor_set_list;	/* out, ptr to array */
    mach_msg_type_number_t *processor_set_count;	/* out */



.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
host
The host to be affected.
.TP 15
.B
processor_set_list
The set of processor_sets currently existing on
.B host
; no particular ordering is guaranteed. 
.TP 15
.B
processor_set_count
The number of processor_sets in the 
.B processor_set_list.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B host_processor_sets
gets send rights to the name port for each processor_set
currently assigned to 
.B host.

.B host_processor_set_priv
can be used to obtain the object ports from these if desired.
.B processor_set_list
is an array that is
created as a result of this call. The caller may wish to 
.B vm_deallocate
this array when the data is no longer needed.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B host
is not a host.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B host_processor_set_priv, processor_set_create, processor_set_tasks,
.B processor_set_threads

