.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	host_info.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:13:55  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:51:26  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:04:34  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:10:15  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:10:19  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:34:29  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.\" 
.TH host_info 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
host_info   \-   gets information about host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

/* the definition of host_info_t from mach.h - sys/host_info.h is */

typedef	int	*host_info_t;		/* variable length array of int */

/* two  interpretations of info are: */

   struct host_basic_info {
	int		max_cpus;	/* maximum possible cpus for
					   which kernel is configured */
	int		avail_cpus;	/* number of cpus now available */
	vm_size_t	memory_size;	/* size of memory in bytes */
	cpu_type_t	cpu_type;	/* cpu type */
	cpu_subtype_t	cpu_subtype;	/* cpu subtype */
   };
typedef struct host_basic_info		*host_basic_info_t;


struct host_sched_info {
	int		min_timeout;	/* minimum timeout in milliseconds */
	int		min_quantum;	/* minimum quantum in milliseconds */
};
typedef struct host_sched_info *host_sched_info_t


.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t host_info(host, flavor, host_info, host_infoCnt)
	mach_port_t	host;
	int 		flavor;
	host_info_t 	host_info;	/* in and out */
	mach_msg_type_number_t 	*host_infoCnt;	/* in and out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
host
The host for which information is to be obtained
.TP 15
.B
flavor
The type of statistics that are wanted.  Currently
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO, HOST_PROCESSOR_SLOTS,
and 
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO
are implemented.
.TP 15
.B
host_info
Statistics about the host specified by 
.B host.
.TP 15
.B
host_infoCnt
Size of the info structure. Should be
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO_COUNT
for 
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO.
Should be the max number of cpus returned by
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO
for  
.B HOST_PROCESSOR_SLOTS.
Should be  
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO_COUNT
for 
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Returns the selected information array for a host, as specified
by  
.B flavor.

.B host_info
is an array of integers that is supplied
by the caller, and filled with specified information. 
.B host_infoCnt
is supplied as the maximum number of integers in 
.B host_info.
On return, it contains the actual number of integers in 
.B host_info.

Basic information is defined by
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO.
The size of this information is defined by 
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO_COUNT.
Processor slots of the active (available) processors is defined by
.B HOST_PROCESSOR_SLOTS.
The size of this information should be obtained from the 
.B max_cpus
field of the structure returned by 
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO.
Additional information of interest to schedulers is defined by
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO.
The size of this information is defined by 
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO_COUNT.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B host
is not a host or
.B flavor
is not recognized.
.TP 25
MIG_ARRAY_TOO_LARGE
Returned info array is too large for
.B host_info.

.B host_info
is filled as much as possible.
.B host_infoCnt
is set to the number of elements that would
be returned if there were enough room.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.  Systems without this call support a host_info
call with an incompatible calling sequence.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B host_ports, host_kernel_version, host_processors, processor_info

