.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	mach_port_get_receive_status.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.6  93/05/10  19:31:16  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:03:26  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.5  91/12/11  08:42:55  jsb
.\" 	Updated for MK62 (sequence numbers).
.\" 	[91/11/26  11:01:25  rpd]
.\" 
.\" 	Changed <mach/mach.h> to <mach.h>.
.\" 	[91/11/25  10:55:24  rpd]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:06:23  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:11:15  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:11:27  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:36:50  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH mach_port_get_receive_status 2 1/13/87
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
mach_port_get_receive_status \- returns the status of a receive right
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

kern_return_t
mach_port_get_receive_status(task, name, status)
	mach_port_t task;
	mach_port_t name;
	mach_port_status_t *status;	/* out */

typedef unsigned int mach_port_seqno_t;
typedef unsigned int mach_port_mscount_t;
typedef unsigned int mach_port_msgcount_t;
typedef unsigned int mach_port_rights_t;

typedef struct mach_port_status {
    mach_port_t          mps_pset;       /* containing port set */
    mach_port_seqno_t    mps_seqno;      /* sequence number */
    mach_port_mscount_t  mps_mscount;    /* make-send count */
    mach_port_msgcount_t mps_qlimit;     /* queue limit */
    mach_port_msgcount_t mps_msgcount;   /* number in the queue */
    mach_port_rights_t   mps_sorights;   /* how many send-once rights */
    boolean_t            mps_srights;    /* do send rights exist? */
    boolean_t            mps_pdrequest;  /* port-deleted requested? */
    boolean_t            mps_nsrequest;  /* no-senders requested? */
} mach_port_status_t;
.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.B
task
The task holding the receive right.
.TP 12
.B
name
The task's name for the receive right.
.TP 12
.B
status
The status information for the receive right.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmach_port_get_receive_status\fR
returns the current status of the specified receive right.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_TASK
\fBtask\fR was invalid.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_NAME
\fBname\fR did not denote a right.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_RIGHT
\fBname\fR denoted a right, but not a receive right.
.PP
The \fBmach_port_get_receive_status\fR call is actually an RPC to \fBtask\fR,
normally a send right for a task port, but potentially any send right.
In addition to the normal diagnostic
return codes from the call's server (normally the kernel),
the call may return \fBmach_msg(2)\fR return codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
mach_port_set_qlimit(2),
mach_port_set_mscount(2),
mach_port_set_seqno(2).
