.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	mach_port_mod_refs.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.6  93/05/10  19:31:28  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:03:42  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.5  91/12/11  08:43:05  jsb
.\" 	Changed <mach/mach.h> to <mach.h>.
.\" 	[91/11/25  10:55:40  rpd]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:06:54  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:11:35  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:11:47  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:37:17  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH mach_port_mod_refs 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
mach_port_mod_refs \-  changes the number of user refs for a right
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

kern_return_t
mach_port_mod_refs(task, name, right, delta)
	mach_port_t task;
	mach_port_t name;
	mach_port_right_t right;
	mach_port_delta_t delta;
.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.B
task
The task holding the right.
.TP 12
.B
name
The task's name for the right.
.TP 12
.B
right
The type of right being modified.
.TP 12
.B
delta
Signed change to the number of user references.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmach_port_mod_refs\fR requests that the number of user references
a task has for a right be changed.  This results in the right
being destroyed, if the number of user references is changed to zero.

The \fBright\fR argument takes the following values:
.nf
.in +5n
MACH_PORT_RIGHT_SEND
MACH_PORT_RIGHT_RECEIVE
MACH_PORT_RIGHT_SEND_ONCE
MACH_PORT_RIGHT_PORT_SET
MACH_PORT_RIGHT_DEAD_NAME
.fi
.in -5n
The \fBname\fR should denote the specified right.

The number of user
references for the right is changed by the amount \fBdelta\fR,
subject to the following restrictions: port sets, receive rights,
and send-once rights may only have one user reference.  The resulting
number of user references can't be negative.  If the resulting number
of user references is zero, the effect is to deallocate the right.
For dead names and send rights, there is an implementation-defined
maximum number of user references.

If the call destroys the right, then the effect is as described for
\fBmach_port_destroy\fR, with the exception that \fBmach_port_destroy\fR
simultaneously destroys all the rights denoted by a name, while
\fBmach_port_mod_refs\fR can only destroy one right.  The name will
be available for reuse if it only denoted the one right.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_TASK
\fBtask\fR was invalid.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
\fBright\fR was invalid.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_NAME
\fBname\fR did not denote a right.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_RIGHT
\fBname\fR denoted a right, but not the specified right.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
The user-reference count would become negative.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
For port sets, receive rights, and send-once rights,
the user-reference count would exceed one.
.TP 25
KERN_UREFS_OVERFLOW
The user-reference count would overflow.
.PP
The \fBmach_port_mod_refs\fR call is actually an RPC to \fBtask\fR,
normally a send right for a task port, but potentially any send right.
In addition to the normal diagnostic
return codes from the call's server (normally the kernel),
the call may return \fBmach_msg(2)\fR return codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
mach_port_destroy(2), mach_port_get_refs(2).
