.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	mach_port_destroy.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.6  93/05/10  19:31:08  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:03:19  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.5  91/12/11  08:42:49  jsb
.\" 	Changed <mach/mach.h> to <mach.h>.
.\" 	[91/11/25  10:55:18  rpd]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:06:07  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:11:07  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:11:19  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:36:28  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH mach_port_destroy 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
mach_port_destroy \-  removes a task's rights for a name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

kern_return_t
mach_port_destroy(task, name)
	mach_port_t task;
	mach_port_t name;
.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.B
task
The task holding the right.
.TP 12
.B
name
The task's name for the right.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmach_port_destroy\fR deallocates all rights denoted by a name.
The name becomes immediately available for reuse.

For most purposes, \fBmach_port_mod_refs\fR
and \fBmach_port_deallocate\fR are preferable.

If \fBname\fR denotes a port set, then all members of the port set
are implicitly removed from the port set.

If \fBname\fR denotes a receive right that is a member of a port set,
the receive right is implicitly removed from the port set.  If there
is a port-destroyed request registered for the port, then the receive
right is not actually destroyed, but instead is sent in a port-destroyed
notification to the backup port.  If there is no registered
port-destroyed request, remaining messages queued to the port are destroyed
and extant send and send-once rights turn into dead names.  If those
send and send-once rights have dead-name requests registered, then
dead-name notifications are generated for them.

If \fBname\fR denotes a send-once right, then the send-once right
is used to produce a send-once notification for the port.

If \fBname\fR denotes a send-once, send, and/or receive right, and it has a
dead-name request registered, then the registered send-once right
is used to produce a port-deleted notification for the name.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_TASK
\fBtask\fR was invalid.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_NAME
\fBname\fR did not denote a right.
.PP
The \fBmach_port_destroy\fR call is actually an RPC to \fBtask\fR,
normally a send right for a task port, but potentially any send right.
In addition to the normal diagnostic
return codes from the call's server (normally the kernel),
the call may return \fBmach_msg(2)\fR return codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
mach_port_mod_refs(2), mach_port_deallocate(2),
mach_port_request_notification(2).
