.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	mach_port_get_set_status.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.6  93/05/10  19:31:22  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:03:32  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.5  91/12/11  08:43:01  jsb
.\" 	Changed <mach/mach.h> to <mach.h>.
.\" 	[91/11/25  10:55:30  rpd]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:06:37  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:11:29  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:11:39  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:37:05  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH mach_port_get_set_status 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
mach_port_get_set_status \- returns the members of a port set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

kern_return_t
mach_port_get_set_status(task, name, members, count)
	mach_port_t task;
	mach_port_t name;
	mach_port_array_t *members;		/* out array */
	mach_msg_type_number_t *count;		/* out */
.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.B
task
The task holding the port set.
.TP 12
.B
name
The task's name for the port set.
.TP 12
.B
members
The task's names for the port set's members.
.TP 12
.B
count
The number of member names returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmach_port_get_set_status\fR returns the members of a port set.
\fBmembers\fR is an array that is automatically allocated when the
reply message is received. The user should \fBvm_deallocate\fR it when
the data is no longer needed.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_TASK
\fBtask\fR was invalid.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_NAME
\fBname\fR did not denote a right.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_RIGHT
\fBname\fR denoted a right, but not a port set.
.TP 25
KERN_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE
The kernel ran out of memory.
.PP
The \fBmach_port_get_set_status\fR call is actually an RPC to \fBtask\fR,
normally a send right for a task port, but potentially any send right.
In addition to the normal diagnostic
return codes from the call's server (normally the kernel),
the call may return \fBmach_msg(2)\fR return codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
mach_port_move_member(2), vm_deallocate(2).
