.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	mach_port_insert_right.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.6  93/05/10  19:31:26  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:03:35  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.5  91/12/11  08:43:03  jsb
.\" 	Changed <mach/mach.h> to <mach.h>.
.\" 	[91/11/25  10:55:33  rpd]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:06:47  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:11:32  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:11:43  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:37:11  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH mach_port_insert_right 2 4/13/87
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
mach_port_insert_right \- inserts a port right into a task
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

kern_return_t
mach_port_insert_right(task, name, right, right_type)
	mach_port_t task;
	mach_port_t name;
	mach_port_t right;
	mach_msg_type_name_t right_type;
.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 12
.B
task
The task which gets the caller's right.
.TP 12
.B
name
The name by which \fBtask\fR will know the right.
.TP 12
.B
right
The port right.
.TP 12
.B
right_type
IPC type of the sent right; e.g., MACH_MSG_TYPE_COPY_SEND
or MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_RECEIVE.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmach_port_insert_right\fR
inserts into \fBtask\fR the caller's right for a port, using a specified
name for the right in the target task.

The specified \fBname\fR can't be one of the reserved values
MACH_PORT_NULL or MACH_PORT_DEAD.  The right
can't be MACH_PORT_NULL or MACH_PORT_DEAD.

The argument \fBright_type\fR specifies a right to be inserted and
how that right should be extracted from the caller.  It should
be a value appropriate for \fBmsgt_name\fR; see \fBmach_msg(2)\fR.

If \fBright_type\fR is
MACH_MSG_TYPE_MAKE_SEND, MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_SEND, or
MACH_MSG_TYPE_COPY_SEND, then a send right is inserted.
If the target already holds send or receive
rights for the port, then \fBname\fR should denote those rights in the
target.  Otherwise, \fBname\fR should be unused in the target.  If the
target already has send rights, then those send rights gain an
additional user reference.  Otherwise, the target gains a send right,
with a user reference count of one.

If \fBright_type\fR is MACH_MSG_TYPE_MAKE_SEND_ONCE or
MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_SEND_ONCE, then a send-once right is inserted.
The \fBname\fR should be unused in the target.
The target gains a send-once right.

If \fBright_type\fR is MACH_MSG_TYPE_MOVE_RECEIVE, then a receive right
is inserted.  If the target already holds send rights
for the port, then \fBname\fR should denote those rights in the target.
Otherwise, \fBname\fR should be unused in the target.  The receive
right is moved into the target task.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_TASK
\fBtask\fR was invalid.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
\fBname\fR was MACH_PORT_NULL or MACH_PORT_DEAD.
.TP 25
KERN_NAME_EXISTS
\fBname\fR already denoted a right.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_VALUE
\fBright\fR was not a port right.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_CAPABILITY
\fBright\fR was null or dead.
.TP 25
KERN_UREFS_OVERFLOW
Inserting the right would overflow \fBname\fR's user-reference count.
.TP 25
KERN_RIGHT_EXISTS
\fBtask\fR already had rights for the port, with a different name.
.TP 25
KERN_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE
The kernel ran out of memory.
.PP
The \fBmach_port_insert_right\fR call is actually an RPC to \fBtask\fR,
normally a send right for a task port, but potentially any send right.
In addition to the normal diagnostic
return codes from the call's server (normally the kernel),
the call may return \fBmach_msg(2)\fR return codes.
.SH SEE ALSO
mach_port_extract_right(2), mach_msg(2).
