.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	memory_object_data_provided.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/05/10  19:33:33  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:08:17  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:09:04  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:12:46  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:13:07  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:39:59  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH memory_object_data_provided 2 12/18/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_data_provided  \-  gives kernel data for memory object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_data_provided(memory_control,
				offset, data, data_count, lock_value)
	mach_port_t
			memory_control;
	vm_offset_t	offset;
	vm_offset_t	data;
	vm_size_t	data_count;
	vm_prot_t	lock_value;



.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B memory_object_data_provided
supplies the kernel with data for the
specified memory object.  Ordinarily, memory managers should only provide data in
reponse to 
.B memory_object_data_request
calls from the kernel. 
The 
.B lock_value
specifies what type of access will 
.B not
be allowed
to the data range. The lock values must be one or more of the set: 
.B VM_PROT_NONE, VM_PROT_READ, VM_PROT_WRITE, VM_PROT_EXECUTE
and
.B VM_PROT_ALL
as defined in 
.B <mach/vm_prot.h>
. 

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
memory_control
The port, provided by the kernel 
in a 
.B memory_object_init
call, to which cache management requests may be issued.
.TP 15
.B
offset
An offset within a memory object, in bytes.  This must be
page aligned.
.TP 15
.B
data
Data that is being provided to the kernel. This is a pointer
to the data.
.TP 15
.B
data_count
The amount of data to be provided.  Must be an integral number
of memory object pages.
.TP 15
.B
lock_value
A protection value indicating those forms of access that should
.B not
be permitted to the specified cached data.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
This routine does not receive a reply message (and consequently
has no return value), so only message transmission errors apply.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_data_request, memory_object_data_error, memory_object_lock_request

