.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	memory_object_init.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/05/10  19:33:55  rvb
.\" 	updated
.\" 	[93/04/21  16:08:43  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:09:57  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:13:15  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:13:58  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:41:11  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH memory_object_init 2 12/19/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_init  \-  initialize paging object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_init(memory_object, memory_control,
			    memory_object_name, memory_object_page_size)
	mach_port_t	memory_object;
	mach_port_t
			memory_control;
	mach_port_t
			memory_object_name;
	vm_size_t	memory_object_page_size;


.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B memory_object_init
serves as a notification that a has been asked to map the given memory object into a task's virtual
address space.  Additionally, it provides a port on which the memory manager
may issue cache management requests, and a port which the kernel
will use to name this data region.  In the event that different
each will perform a 
.B memory_object_init
call with new request and name ports.
The virtual page size that is used by the calling kernel is included
for planning purposes.

When the memory manager is prepared to accept requests for data for
this object, it should call 
.B memory_object_set_attribute
with the
attribute 
.B ready
set. Othewise the kernel will not process requests
on this object.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_object
The port that represents the memory object data, as 
supplied to the kernel in a 
.B vm_map
call.
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_control
The request port to which a response is 
requested.  [In the event that a memory object has been supplied 
to more than one the kernel that has made the request.]
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_object_name
A port used by the kernel to refer to the 
memory object data in reponse to 
.B vm_region
calls.
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_object_page_size
The page size to be used by this kernel.
All data sizes in calls involving this kernel must be an integral multiple
of the page size.  [Note that different kernels, indicated by different
.B memory_control
s may have different page sizes.]

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
.B KERN_SUCCESS
Since this routine is called by the kernel, which does not
wait for a reply message, this value is ignored.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_set_attributes

