.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	processor_info.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:14:08  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/11  12:53:50  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:11:07  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:13:49  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:14:34  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:42:10  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH processor_info 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
processor_info   \-   gets information about processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
/* the definition of processor_info_t from mach.h - sys/processor_info.h is */

typedef	int	*processor_info_t;	/* variable length array of int */

/* one interpretation of info is */

   struct processor_basic_info {
	cpu_type_t	cpu_type;	/* cpu type */
	cpu_subtype_t	cpu_subtype;	/* cpu subtype */
	boolean_t	running;	/* is processor running? */
	int		slot_num;	/* slot number */
	boolean_t	is_master;	/* is this the master processor */
   };
typedef struct processor_basic_info		*processor_basic_info_t;



kern_return_t
processor_info(processor, flavor, host, processor_info, processor_infoCnt)
	mach_port_t 		processor;
	int 			flavor;
	mach_port_t		*host;
	processor_info_t 	processor_info;	/* in and out */
        mach_msg_type_number_t	*processor_infoCnt;	/* in and out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
processor
The processor for which information is to be obtained
.TP 15
.B
flavor
The type of information that is wanted.  Currently only
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO
is implemented.
.TP 15
.B
host
The host on which the processor resides.  This is the non-privileged
host port.
.TP 15
.B
processor_info
Information about the processor specified by 
.B processor.
.TP 15
.B
processor_infoCnt
Size of the info structure. Should be
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO_COUNT
for flavor 
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Returns the selected information array for a processor, as specified
by 
.B flavor.

.B processor_info
is an array of integers that is supplied
by the caller, and filled with specified information. 
.B processor_infoCnt
is supplied as the maximum number of integers in 
.B processor_info.
On return,
it contains the actual number of integers in  
.B processor_info.

Basic information is defined by 
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO.
The size of this information is defined by  
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO_COUNT.
Machines which require more configuration information beyond the slot
number are expected to define additional (machine-dependent) flavors.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B processor
is not a processor or
.B flavor
is not recognized.
.TP 25
MIG_ARRAY_TOO_LARGE
Returned info array is too large for
.B processor_info.

.B processor_info
is filled as much as possible.
.B processor_infoCnt
is set to the number of elements that would
be returned if there were enough room.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_start, processor_exit, processor_control, host_processors
.B host_info

