.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	processor_control.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  14:46:40  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/11  12:51:02  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:10:59  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:13:43  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:14:26  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:42:03  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH processor_control 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
processor_control  \-  do something to a processor
processor_exit  \-  exit a processor
processor_start  \-  start a processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_start(processor)
	mach_port_t		processor;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_exit(processor)
	mach_port_t		processor;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_control(processor, cmd, count)
	mach_port_t		processor;
	processor_info_t	*cmd;  /* array of ints */
	mach_msg_type_number_t	count; 


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B processor
Specifies the processor.
.TP 15
.B
.B cmd
Contains the command to be applied to the processor.
.TP 15
.B
.B count
Specifies the length of the command as a number of ints.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Some multiprocessors may allow privileged software to control processors.
The
.B processor_start, processor_exit
, and 
.B processor_control
operations implement this.  The interpretation of the command in
.B cmd
is machine dependent.  A newly started processor is assigned to the
default processor set.  An exited processor is removed from the
processor set to which it was assigned and ceases to be active.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The operation was performed.
.TP 25
KERN_FAILURE
The operation was not performed.  A likely reason is that it
is not supported on this processor.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B processor
is not a processor.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ADDRESS
.B data
points to inaccessible memory.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_info, host_processors

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.
All of these operations are machine-dependent.  They may do nothing.
The ability to restart an exited processor is also machine-dependent.

