.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	processor_set_destroy.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:14:20  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/11  12:53:59  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:11:32  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:14:00  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:14:47  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:42:35  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH processor_set_destroy 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
processor_set_destroy  \-  destroy a processor set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_set_destroy(processor_set)
	mach_port_t		processor_set;




.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B processor_set
Specifies the processor_set to be exited.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Destroys the specified processor set.  Any assigned processors, tasks, or
threads are reassigned to the default set.  The object port for the
processor set is required (not the name port).  The default processor
set cannot be destroyed.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The set was destroyed.
.TP 25
KERN_FAILURE
An attempt was made to destroy the default processor set, or
the operating system does not support processor allocation.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B processor_set
is not a processor set.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_set_create, processor_assign, task_assign, thread_assign

