.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	processor_assign.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  14:46:36  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/11  12:31:40  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:10:51  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:13:38  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:14:23  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:41:56  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH processor_assign 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
processor_assign  \-  assign processor to processor set
processor_get_assignment  \-  obtain assignment of processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_assign(processor, new_set, wait)
	mach_port_t	processor;
	mach_port_t	new_set;
	boolean_t	wait;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_get_assignment(processor, assigned_set)
	mach_port_t	processor;
	mach_port_t *assigned_set;


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B processor
The processor to be assigned.
.TP 15
.B
.B processor_set
The processor set to assign it to.
.TP 15
.B
.B wait
Whether to wait for the assignment to complete.
.TP 15
.B
.B assigned_set_name
Name port for processor set that processor is currently
assigned to

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B processor_assign
assigns 
.B processor
to the the set
.B processor_set
.
After the assignment is completed, the processor only executes threads
that are assigned to that processor set.  Any previous assignment of
the processor is nullified.  The master processor cannot be reassigned.
All processors take clock interrupts at all times.  The wait argument
indicates whether the caller should wait for the assignment to be
completed or should return immediately.  Dedicated kernel threads are
used to perform processor assignment, so setting 
.B wait
to 
.B FALSE
allows assignment requests to be queued and performed faster, especially
if the kernel has more than one dedicated internal thread for processor
assignment.
Redirection of other device interrupts away from processors assigned to
other than the default processor set is machine-dependent.  Intermediaries
that interpose on ports must be sure to interpose on both ports involved
in this call if they interpose on either.

.B processor_get_assignment
Obtains the current assignment of a processor.
The name port of the processor set is returned.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The assignment has been performed.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B processor
is not a processor, or
.B processor_set
is not a processor_set on the same host as
.B processor
.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_set_create, processor_set_info, task_assign, thread_assign
,
.B host_processor_set_priv


