.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	task_assign.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:14:41  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:51:54  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:12:18  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:14:26  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:15:16  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:43:23  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH task_assign 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
task_assign  \-  assign task to processor set
task_assign_default  \-  assign task to default processor set
task_get_assignment  \-  get processor set to which task is assigned
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
task_assign(task, processor_set, assign_threads)
	mach_port_t task;
	mach_port_t processor_set;
	boolean_t	assign_threads;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
task_assign_default(task, assign_threads)
	mach_port_t	task;
	boolean_t	assign_threads;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t
task_get_assignment(task, processor_set)
	mach_port_t		task;
	mach_port_t	*processor_set;


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
task
The task to be affected.
.TP 15
.B
processor_set
The processor set to assign it to, or the processor 
set to which it is assigned.
.TP 15
.B
assign_threads
Boolean indicating whether this assignment applies 
to existing threads in the task.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B task_assign
assigns 
.B task
the the set 
.B processor_set.
This assignment is for the purposes of determining the initial assignment
of newly created threads in 
.B task.
Any previous assignment of
the task is nullified.  Existing threads within the task are also reassigned
if 
.B assign_threads
is TRUE.  They are not affected if it is FALSE.

.B task_assign_default
is a variant of 
.B task_assign
that assigns the task to the default processor set on that task's host.
This variant exists
because the control port for the default processor set is privileged and
not ususally available to users.


.B task_get_assignment
returns the current assignment of the task.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The assignment has been performed.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B task
is not a task, or
.B processor_set
is not a processor_set on the same host as
.B task
.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_set_create, processor_set_info, processor_assign, thread_assign
,
.B host_processor_set_priv

