.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	task_info.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:14:50  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:52:49  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:12:36  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:14:34  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:15:24  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:43:37  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH task_info 2 1/20/88
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
task_info  \-  gets task machine independent information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

/* the definition of task_info_t from mach.h - mach/task_info.h is */

typedef	int	*task_info_t;		/* variable length array of int */

/* currently the only interpretation of info is */

   struct task_basic_info {
	int		suspend_count;	/* suspend count for task */
	int		base_priority;	/* base scheduling priority */
	vm_size_t	virtual_size;	/* number of virtual pages */
	vm_size_t	resident_size;	/* number of resident pages */
	time_value_t	user_time;	/* total user run time for
					   terminated threads */
	time_value_t	system_time;	/* total system run time for
					   terminated threads */
   };
typedef struct task_basic_info		*task_basic_info_t;

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t task_info(target_task, flavor, task_info, task_infoCnt)
	mach_port_t	target_task;
	int 		flavor;
	task_info_t 	task_info;	/* in and out */
	mach_msg_type_number_t 	*task_infoCnt;	/* in and out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
target_task
The task to be affected.
.TP 15
.B
flavor
The type of statistics that are wanted.  Currently only
.B TASK_BASIC_INFO
is implemented.
.TP 15
.B
task_info
Statistics about the task specified by 
.B target_task
.
.TP 15
.B
task_infoCnt
Size of the info structure. Currently only 
.B TASK_BASIC_INFO_COUNT
is  implemented.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Returns the selected information array for a task, as specified
by 
.B flavor
. 
.B task_info
is an array of integers that is supplied
by the caller, and filled with specified information. 
.B task_infoCnt
is supplied as the maximum number of integers in 
.B task_info
. On return,
it contains the actual number of integers in 
.B task_info
.

Currently there is only one flavor of information which is defined
by 
.B TASK_BASIC_INFO
. Its size is defined by 
.B TASK_BASIC_INFO_COUNT
.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B target_task
is not a task or
.B flavor
is not recognized.
.TP 25
MIG_ARRAY_TOO_LARGE
Returned info array is too large for
.B task_info
. 
.B task_info
is filled as much as possible.
.B task_infoCnt
is set to the number of elements that would
be returned if there were enough room.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B task_special_ports, task_threads,
.B thread_info, thread_state




