.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	task_suspend.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:15:23  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:53:32  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:13:12  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:14:49  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:15:42  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:44:37  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH task_suspend 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
task_suspend  \-  suspends specified task
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t task_suspend(target_task)
	mach_port_t		target_task;


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
target_task
The task to be suspended.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Increments the task's suspend count and stops all
threads in the task. As long as the suspend count is
positive newly created threads will not run.
This call does not return until all threads are suspended.

The count
may become greater than one, with the effect that it
will take more than one resume call to restart the task.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The task has been suspended.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B target_task
is not a task.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B task_create, task_terminate, task_resume, task_info,
.B thread_suspend




