.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	task_threads.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:15:31  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:53:38  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:13:28  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:14:59  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:15:49  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:44:50  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH task_threads 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
task_threads  \-  gets thread_kernel_ports for a task
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t task_threads(target_task, thread_list, thread_count)
	mach_port_t	target_task;
	thread_array_t	*thread_list;	/* out, ptr to array */
	mach_msg_type_numbe_t	*thread_count;	/* out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
target_task
The task to be affected.
.TP 15
.B
thread_list
The set of threads contained within 
.B target_task
; no
particular ordering is guaranteed. 
.TP 15
.B
thread_count
The number of threads in the 
.B thread_list
.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B task_threads
gets send rights to  the  kernel port for each thread
contained in 
.B target_task
. 
.B thread_list
is an array that is
created as a result of this call. The caller may wish to 
.B vm_deallocate
this array when the data is no longer needed.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B target_task
is not a task.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B thread_create, thread_terminate, thread_suspend


