.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	task_create.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:14:44  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:52:23  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:12:28  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:14:30  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:15:21  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:43:31  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH task_create 2 1/22/88
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
task_create  \-  creates new task from a parent task
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t task_create(parent_task, inherit_memory,
				 child_task)
	mach_port_t	parent_task	
	boolean_t	inherit_memory;
	mach_port_t	*child_task;	/* out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
target_task
The task from which the child's capabilities are drawn.
.TP 15
.B
inherit_memory
If set, the child task's address space is built 
from the parent task according to its memory inheritance values;
otherwise, the child task is given an empty address space.
.TP 15
.B
child_task
The new task.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B task_create
creates a new task from 
.B parent_task
; the
resulting task (
.B child_task
)
acquires shared or copied parts of the parent's address space (see
.B vm_inherit
).
The child task initially contains no threads.

The child task gets the four special ports created or copied for
it at task creation. The 
.B task_kernel_port
is created and
send rights for it are given to the child and 
returned to the caller. The 
.B task_notify_port
is created and receive, ownership and send rights for it are given to the
child. The caller has no access to it.  The 
.B task_bootstrap_port
and the 
.B task_exception_port
are inherited from the parent task.
The new task can get send rights to these ports with the call 
.B task_get_special_port
.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
A new task has been created.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B parent_task
is  not a valid task port.
.TP 25
KERN_RESOURCE_SHORTAGE
Some critical kernel resource is unavailable.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B task_terminate, task_suspend, task_resume, task_special_ports,
.B task_threads, thread_create, thread_resume,
.B vm_inherit

.SH BUGS
Not implemented yet. Use 
.B fork
.

