.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	vm_copy.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.6  93/03/18  15:16:37  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:55:12  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.5  91/12/13  14:22:32  jsb
.\" 	Moved alignment restrictions to a BUGS section.
.\" 	Removed the non-overlapping restriction.
.\" 	[91/12/11            rpd]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:15:22  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:16:01  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:16:59  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:47:15  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH vm_copy 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
vm_copy  \-  copies memory to a destination address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t vm_copy (target_task, source_address, count, dest_address)
	mach_port_t	target_task;
	vm_address_t	source_address;
	vm_size_t	count;
	vm_address_t	dest_address;
.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
target_task
Task whose virtual memory is to be affected.
.TP 15
.B
source_address
Address in \fBtarget_task\fR
of the start of the source range.
.TP 15
.B
count
Number of bytes to copy.
.TP 15
.B
dest_address
Address in \fBtarget_task\fR
of the start of the destination range.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBvm_copy\fR causes the source memory range to be copied to
the destination address.  The source and destination memory ranges
may overlap.  The destination address range must already be allocated and
writable; the source range must be readable.

\fBvm_copy\fR is equivalent to vm_read followed by vm_write.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
Memory copied.
.TP 25
KERN_PROTECTION_FAILURE
Either the destination region was not 
not writable, or the source region was not readable.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ADDRESS
Illegal or non-allocated address specified or 
insufficient memory allocated at one of the addresses.
.SH BUGS
The current implementation requires that \fBsource_address\fR,
\fBcount\fR, and \fBdest_address\fR all be page-aligned.
Otherwise, KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
vm_read(2),
vm_write(2),
vm_protect(2),
vm_statistics(2).
