.\" 
.\" Mach Operating System
.\" Copyright (c) 1991,1990 Carnegie Mellon University
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
.\" notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
.\" software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
.\" thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation.
.\" 
.\" CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS"
.\" CONDITION.  CARNEGIE MELLON DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR
.\" ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Carnegie Mellon requests users of this software to return to
.\" 
.\"  Software Distribution Coordinator  or  Software.Distribution@CS.CMU.EDU
.\"  School of Computer Science
.\"  Carnegie Mellon University
.\"  Pittsburgh PA 15213-3890
.\" 
.\" any improvements or extensions that they make and grant Carnegie Mellon
.\" the rights to redistribute these changes.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	vm_statistics.man,v $
.\" Revision 2.5  93/03/18  15:17:07  mrt
.\" 	corrected types
.\" 	[93/03/12  16:55:44  lli]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.4  91/05/14  17:16:37  mrt
.\" 	Correcting copyright
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  91/02/14  14:16:45  mrt
.\" 	Changed to new Mach copyright
.\" 	[91/02/12  18:17:45  mrt]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  90/08/07  18:48:18  rpd
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.TH vm_statistics 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
vm_statistics  \-  returns virtual memory statistics for the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

struct vm_statistics {
	long	pagesize;		/* page size in bytes */
	long	free_count;		/* # of pages free */
	long	active_count;		/* # of pages active */
	long	inactive_count;		/* # of pages inactive */
	long	wire_count;		/* # of pages wired down */
	long	zero_fill_count;	/* # of zero fill pages */
	long	reactivations;		/* # of pages reactivated */
	long	pageins;		/* # of pageins */
	long	pageouts;		/* # of pageouts */
	long	faults;			/* # of faults */
	long	cow_faults;		/* # of copy-on-writes */
	long	lookups;		/* object cache lookups */
	long	hits;			/* object cache hits */
};

typedef struct vm_statistics	vm_statistics_data_t; 

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t	vm_statistics(target_task, vm_stats)
	mach_port_t	 	target_task;
	vm_statistics_data_t	*vm_stats;	/* out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
target_task
Task which is requesting statistics.
.TP 15
.B
vm_stats
The structure that will receive the statistics.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vm_statistics
returns the statistics about the kernel's use of virtual memory
since the kernel was booted.
.B pagesize
can also be found as a global variable 
.B vm_page_size
which
is set at task initialization and remains constant for the life of the task.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS

